
AGENCY OF HUMAN SERVICES  
DEPARTMENT OF DISABILITIES , AGING AND INDEPENDENT LIVING  
Disability and Aging Services          Blind and Visually Impaired       
     Licensing and Protection         Vocational Rehabilitation  
Division of Licensing and Protection 
HC 2 South, 280 State Drive 
Waterbury, VT 05671-2060 
http://www.dail.vermont.gov 
Survey and Certification Voice/TTY (802) 241-0480 
Survey and Certification Fax (802) 241-0343 
Survey and Certification Reporting Line: (888) 700-5330 
To Report Adult Abuse: (800) 564-1612 
December 1 2, 2024 
Diane Driscoll, M anager 
North End Ranch 
2 Westview Court 
Rutland, VT  05701 
Dear M s. Driscoll: 
Enclosed is a copy of your acceptable plans of correction for the survey conducted on October 29, 2024.  
Please post this document in a prominent place in your facility. 
We may follow up to verify that substantial compliance has been achieve d and maintained.  If we find that 
your facility has failed to achieve or maintain substantial compliance, remedies may be imposed.  
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at (802) 585-0995. 
Sincerely,  
C
arolyn Scott, LMHC, MS  
State Long Term Care Manager  
Division of Licensing & Protection 






Community Care Network  Rutland Mental Health  North End Ranch  
Plan of Correction 
Page | 1 
 (x4) ID 
Prefix 
Tag Summary statement of deficiencies (Each 
Deficiency must be preceded by full regulatory 
or LSC identifying information)  Providers Plan of Correction 
(Each corrective action 
should be cross -referenced to 
the appropriate deficiency)  (x5) complete 
date Update  
R128  
SS=E  5.5 General Care  
5.5c Each resident's medication, treatment, 
and dietary services shall be consistent with 
the physician's orders.  
This REQUIREMENT is not met as evidenced 
by: R128 Based on staff interview and record 
review there was a failure to ensure 
medications are administered according to physician's orders for two applicable 
residents (Resident #1 Resident # 2).  
Findings include: Per resident record review 
two residents of the applicable sample physician's orders did not include specific 
directions of use for Resident #1 and # 2. 
The as needed medication order(s) did not include directions in the hours of frequenc y 
to administered the medications.  
1. Resident #1 medication record included 
the following orders to not have complete 
directions, to indicate the frequency to administer as needed (PRN) medication. The 
orders are as follows, Imodium AD 2 mg, 
take 1 tablet BID (twice daily) as needed, Calmo septine 0.44% - 20.6% topical 
ointment, apply 1 film as needed to affected area TID (three times a day) as needed, Nystain 100,000 unit/gram topical cream, 
apply 1 unspecified as needed topically BID 
(twice daily) as needed.  
2. Resident #2 medication record included the following medication order to not have 
complete directions, to indicate the 
frequency to administer the as needed medication. The order is written as, Mucinex Nursing Supervisor will 
review MARS weekly in supervision with Nursing to ensure medications are 
administered according to 
physician’s orders - 
specifically including 
precise directions in hours 
and/or frequency to administer medications.  12/6/24 all 
current  MARS will be reviewed - and 
ongoing in supervision  COMPLETE - 
process change  
Weekly Nursing 
supervision 
with Assistant Medical 
Director, 
APRN continues to 
involve review 
of MARS.  
Community Care Network  Rutland Mental Health  North End Ranch  
Plan of Correction  
Page | 2 
 600 mg tablet, take 1 tablet as needed by 
oral route twice as needed.  
Per interview in the afternoon on 10/29/24, 
the Manager confirmed the as needed (PRN) 
medications orders did not include complete 
directions in the frequency the medications 
are to be administered.  
R136  
SS=E  5.7 Assessment  
5.7.c Each resident shall also be reassessed 
annually and at any point in which there is a 
change in the resident's physical or mental 
condition.  
This REQUIREMENT is not met as evidenced by: R136 Based on record review and staff 
interview the Registered Nurse (RN) failed to 
ensure 2 out of 3 resident records contained 
an annual reassessment and a significant 
change assessment (Residents #1 and #2).  
Findings include:  
1. Per record review Resident #1, was 
admitted to the Residential Care Home (RCH), from the previous location in 
September 9/2021. The most recent 
assessment was completed on 4/23/2023. 
An annual reassessment was not identified 
within the resident record a s completed.  
2. Per record review Resident # 2 was 
admitted to the Residential Care Home (RCH) on 5/16/22, the most recent 
assessment completed wit in the record was 
on 9/20/22. An annual reassessment was 
not identified within the resident record as 
completed.  
At 11:40 PM on 10/29/24 the Manager 
confirmed the completed assessments Nursing Supervisor, 
Compliance Director, and 
EMR specialist will meet to 
review and ensure VT Nursing Assessment is 
available for scheduling 
outside of the Admission forms group, for Yearly Update, and updates as needed.  
 Credible BI Report System 
to be created for Nursing 
Supervisor to track timeliness, and review 
Nursing Assessments  
 
Nursing Supervisor to provide training during Supervision specific to “Significant Change 
Assessment”, when these 
are to occur.  
 
 1/31/25   
Community Care Network  Rutland Mental Health  North End Ranch  
Plan of Correction 
Page | 3 
 dates, acknowledging reassessments were 
not completed on an annual basis  
R179 
SS=E  5.11 Staff Services  
5.11.b The home must ensure that staff 
demonstrate competency in the skills and 
techniques they are expected to perform 
before providing any direct care to residents. There shall be at least twelve (12) 
hours of training each year for each staff 
person pro viding direct care to residents. 
The training must include, but is not limited to, the following:  
(1) Resident rights;  
(2) Fire safety and emergency evacuation;  
(3) Resident emergency response 
procedures, such as the Heimlich maneuver, accidents, police or ambulance contact and first aid;  
(4) Policies and procedures regarding mandatory reports of abuse, neglect and exploitation;  
(5) Respectful and effective interaction with 
residents;  
(6) Infection control measures, including but 
not limited to, handwashing, handling of linens, maintaining clean environments, blood borne pathogens and universal precautions; and  
(7) General supervision and care of residents.  
 This REQUIREMENT is not met as evidenced 
by: Based on record review and staff 
interview the RCH failed to ensure 2 out of 5 sampled staff completed all required yearly 
training. Findings include: Per review staff 
training records it was noted that 2 out of  5 
staff that provide direct patient care did not 
complete all the required yearly training to 
include: resident rights, fire safety and emergency evacuation, resident emergency 
response procedures, such as the Heimlich  North End Ranch 
Supervisor to check staff training compliance 
weekly.  Any Staff out of compliance with training 
are not permitted to work 
on the floor until training complies.  
All new hires are required to complete their 12hours 
of required trainings, 
following Agency Orientation, prior to being 
on the floor and/or 
shadowing. Supervisors will check and confirm Training 
has been completed prior 
to scheduling new hires for any sha dowing/on the floor 
training/shifts.  Immediately -
11/19/24  Complete  
 
Community Care Network  Rutland Mental Health  North End Ranch  
Plan of Correction 
Page | 4 
 maneuver, accidents, police, or ambulance 
contact and first aid, policies, and 
procedures regarding mandatory reports of 
abuse, neglect and exploitation, respectful 
and effective interaction with residents, general supervision, and care of residents.  
Per interview on 10/29/24 at 12:00 PM, the 
Manager confirmed 2 out 5 staff failed to 
complete the assigned annual trainings of the seven topic areas.  
R302SS
=F IX PHYSICAL PLANT  
9.11 Disaster and Emergency Preparedness  
9.11.c Each home shall have in effect, and available to staff and residents, written 
copies of a plan for the protection of all 
persons in the event of fire and for the evacuation of the building when necessary. 
All staff shall be instructed periodically and 
kept informed of their duties under the plan. Fire drills shall be conducted on at least a 
quarterly basis and shall rotate times of day 
among morning, afternoon, evening, and night. The date and time of each drill and 
the names of participating staff m embers 
shall be documented.  
This REQUIREMENT is not met as evidenced 
by: Based on staff interview and record 
review, the facility failed to ensure that fire 
drills were conducted at specific rotating times of the day per regulations. Findings 
include: During review of the fire drill logs 
kept by the facility, 1 fire drill was documented as completed within the last year.  
Per interview on 10/29/24 12:10 PM, the 
Manager confirmed the documentation of 1 
completed drill in November 2023, s/he Supervisor will review 
during bi -weekly 
supervision with Site Safety Staff, and document, compliance with all 
necessary drills, trainings, 
safety concerns, etc. Supervisor will 
support/assist/ensure the 
immediate scheduling of any/all trainings and drills 
necessary to serve as a 
check and balance for site safety responsibilities.   Immediately 
11/19/24  Complete:  
Fire Drills occurred: Jan 
2
nd, July 14th, 
November 30
th 2024  
Community Care Network  Rutland Mental Health  North End Ranch  
Plan of Correction  
Page | 5 
 confirmed no additional fire drills have been 
completed.  
 